Add section capturing external DRS URIs (#55)
HumanCellAtlas/dcp2: docs/dcp2_system_design.rst

   hashes (and UUIDs for that matter) using a case sensitive quality
   comparison

> External DRS File URIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

External DRS File URIs

```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Some files may be hosted by an external DRS repository and are not available for import

Reviewer: Wrap on 80. https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/dcp2#style-guide

to the repository. In these cases, the `drs_uri` field may be provided in the file descriptor
to indicate to this to the importer. Descriptors with this value set will receive an empty TDR

> `file_id` value after import to TDR [#]_, and the importer will skip any attempt to import

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to indicate to this to the importer. A descriptors with this property set will cause a ``null`` value in the ``file_id`` column of the the ``…_file`` table row for the data file referenced in the descriptor, in any TDR snapshot containing the data file. [#]_. The importer will skip any attempt to import
```

> the related data file.  Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the data file referenced by such a descriptor.  Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to
```

> `NULL` TDR `file_id` fields and fall back to using the DRS URI in the descriptor content field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`null` values in TDR `file_id` columns and fall back to using the ``drs_uri`` property in the descriptor content column.
```

I avoid "field" and use "property" for JSON and "column" for tables.

Externally hosted files do not require a provided hash (i.e., ``crc32c``, ``sha1``, ``sha256`` and ``s3_etag``).

> The `drs_uri` field must be a URI utilizing the `drs://` scheme.

Reviewer: For externally hosted files, the hash is crucial. We can't make it optional.

Author: @hannes-ucsc thanks, will update here and the associated schema PR.

   comparison

External DRS File URIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some files may be hosted by an external DRS repository and are not available for

> import to the repository. In these cases, the ``drs_uri`` property may be provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import to the TDR. In these cases, the ``drs_uri`` property may be provided
```

in the file descriptor to indicate this to the importer. A descriptor with
this property set will cause a ``null`` value in the ``file_id`` column of the
``…_file`` table row for the data file referenced in the descriptor, in any TDR

> snapshot containing the data file. [#]_,
> The importer will skip any attempt to import the externally referenced files.

Reviewer: I guess you'll want either

```suggestion
snapshot containing the data file.[#]_

The importer will skip any attempt to import the externally referenced files.
```

or 

```suggestion
snapshot containing the data file.[#]_ The importer will skip any attempt to import the externally referenced files.
```

> Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to a ```NULL``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to a row with a ```NULL`` value
```

> TDR ``file_id`` column and fall back to using the DRS URI as provided in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the TDR ``file_id`` column and fall back to using the ``drs_uri`` property of the
```

> descriptor ``content`` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
descriptor JSON in the ``content`` column of the same row.
```

> The ``drs_uri`` property must be a URI utilizing the ``drs://`` scheme. Content
> hashes are required for descriptors of this nature.

Reviewer: The schema already requires `crc32c` and `sha256`. I don't think we should require the others. It would complicate the schema and those two are sufficient for any use case. One is fast and the other is virtually collision free. So I would say

```suggestion
The ``drs_uri`` property must be a URI utilizing the ``drs://`` scheme. As for regular files, descriptors for files at external DRS URIs are required to have the ``crc32c`` and ``sha256`` content
hashes.
```

A descriptor with the ``drs_uri`` property set follows below::

    {
        "describedBy": "https://schema.humancellatlas.org/system/1.0.0/file_descriptor",
        "schema_version": "1.0.0",
        "schema_type": "file_descriptor",
        "file_name": "1b6d8348-d6e9-406a-aa6a-7ee886e52bf9/IDC9_L004_R2.fastq.gz",
        "size": 4218464933,
        "file_id": "ae5d1035-8f2b-4355-a0ef-bbb99958b303",
        "file_version": "2020-05-01T04:26:07.021870Z",
        "drs_uri": "drs://example.org/123abc",
        "crc32c": "0b83b575",
        "sha1": "9ee5c924eb8cce21b2544b92cea7df0ac84e6e2f",
        "sha256": "4c9b22cfd3eb141a30a43fd52ce576b586279ca021444ff191c460a26cf1e4cc",
        "s3_etag": "c92e5374ac0a53b228d4c1511c2d2842-63"
    }

.. [#]

>     The TDR ``file_id`` field is distinct than the ``file_id`` field as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The TDR ``file_id`` column is distinct from the ``file_id`` property as
```

>     expressed in the `file_descriptor` metadata schema, and is populated by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    expressed in the ``file_descriptor`` metadata schema, and is populated by
```

Would be good to link to https://github.com/HumanCellAtlas/metadata-schema/blob/master/json_schema/system/file_descriptor.json

   comparison

External DRS File URIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some files may be hosted by an external DRS repository and are not available for

> import to the TDR. In these cases, the ``drs_uri`` property may be provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import to the TDR. In these cases, the ``drs_uri`` property must be provided
```

in the file descriptor to indicate this to the importer. A descriptor with
this property set will cause a ``null`` value in the ``file_id`` column of the
``…_file`` table row for the data file referenced in the descriptor, in any TDR

> snapshot containing the data file.[#]_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
snapshot containing the data file.[#]_ If this property is provided in a descriptor, regardless of its value, the staging area may not contain an object at the path `data/{file_name}` where ``file_name`` is the ``file_name`` property of the descriptor.
```

The importer will skip any attempt to import the externally referenced files.
Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to a row with a ```NULL`` value
in the TDR ``file_id`` column and fall back to using the ``drs_uri`` property of the
descriptor JSON in the ``content`` column of the same row.

> The ``drs_uri`` property must be a URI utilizing the ``drs://`` scheme. As for regular files, descriptors for files at external DRS URIs are required to have the ``crc32c`` and ``sha256`` content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``drs_uri`` property must be ``null`` or a string containing a URI utilizing the ``drs://`` scheme. As for regular files, descriptors for files at external DRS URIs are required to have the ``crc32c`` and ``sha256`` content
```

> hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hashes.

If the ``drs_uri`` property has the ``null`` value, the data file is presently not available, neither in the staging area nor in an external DRS repository, but may be made available in the future, along with an updated descriptor referencing it. File descriptors with a ``null`` value for ``drs_uri`` are colloquially known as *phantom files*. Note that the staging area source must either provide the ``drs_uri`` property in the descriptor or a data file in the staging area. Omitting both is not valid and does not indicate a phantom file. The source must explicitly set ``drs_uri`` to ``null`` to indicate phantom files. As mentioned above, providing both is also invalid.
```

> A descriptor with the ``drs_uri`` property set follows below::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a descriptor with the ``drs_uri`` property set follows below::
```

   comparison

External DRS File URIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some files may be hosted by an external DRS repository and are not available for
import to the TDR. In these cases, the ``drs_uri`` property must be provided
in the file descriptor to indicate this to the importer. A descriptor with
this property set will cause a ``null`` value in the ``file_id`` column of the
``…_file`` table row for the data file referenced in the descriptor, in any TDR
snapshot containing the data file.[#]_ If this property is provided in a
descriptor, regardless of its value, the staging area may not contain an object
at the path `data/{file_name}` where ``file_name`` is the ``file_name`` property
of the descriptor.

The importer will skip any attempt to import the externally referenced files.
Downstream consumers of these file descriptors must be resilient to a row with

> a ```NULL`` value in the TDR ``file_id`` column and fall back to using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a ``NULL`` value in the TDR ``file_id`` column and fall back to using the
```

``drs_uri`` property of the descriptor JSON in the ``content`` column of the
same row.

The ``drs_uri`` property must be ``null`` or a string containing a URI utilizing
 the ``drs://`` scheme. As for regular files, descriptors for files at external
DRS URIs are required to have the ``crc32c`` and ``sha256`` content
hashes.

If the ``drs_uri`` property has the ``null`` value, the data file is presently
not available, neither in the staging area nor in an external DRS repository,
but may be made available in the future, along with an updated descriptor
referencing it. File descriptors with a ``null`` value for ``drs_uri`` are
colloquially known as *phantom files*. Note that the staging area source must
either provide the ``drs_uri`` property in the descriptor or a data file in the
staging area. Omitting both is not valid and does not indicate a phantom file.
The source must explicitly set ``drs_uri`` to ``null`` to indicate phantom
files. As mentioned above, providing both is also invalid.

An example of a descriptor with the ``drs_uri`` property set follows below::

    {

>         "describedBy": "https://schema.humancellatlas.org/system/1.0.0/file_descriptor",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "describedBy": "https://schema.humancellatlas.org/system/2.1.0/file_descriptor",
```

>         "schema_version": "1.0.0",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "schema_version": "2.1.0",
```

        "schema_type": "file_descriptor",

>         "file_name": "1b6d8348-d6e9-406a-aa6a-7ee886e52bf9/IDC9_L004_R2.fastq.gz",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "file_name": "1b6d8348-d6e9-406a-aa6a-7ee886e52bf9/IDC9_L004_R2.fastq.gz",
        "content_type": "application/binary",
```

Without this the example wouldn't be valid against the schema.
